We've covered a lot of territory in this lecture,
let's recap some of the more important points.
Actuators is a device that causes motion that
can cause linear or rotary motion, and they
can generate either a speed or a force. They
can be based on a number of different physical
principles; they can be hydraulic, pneumatic,
or electric.
In most robots, electric is the most common
type of actuator that's used. Most robots
driven by electric motors employ a reduction
gear box. Electric motors are capable of spinning
very very quickly, but they tend to have relatively
low torque. A reduction gearbox amplifies
the motor's torque at the expense of the motor's
speed. We introduced "S" as an operator to
convert a differential equation into an algebraic
equation, a characteristic equation, which
represents the dynamics of an underlying mechanical
or electrical system. The roots of the characteristic
equation are referred to as the poles of the
system. And they describe the response of
the system as a function of time.
For a system with multiple poles, the overall
response is the super position of the response,
due to each of the individual poles.
We introduced the notion of a transfer function.
And in the laplace domain it is the ratio
of resistance output to it's input.
Most mechanical systems incorporate friction.
There are two important classes of friction:
linear friction, and non-linear friction which
is sometimes referred to as coulomb friction.
A realistic friction model looks something
like this. It has a positive and negative
coulomb friction value and a linear slope
"B".
The friction force always opposes the direction
of motion. And a friction characteristic like
this is not defined for the case of zero velocity.
For a current controlled electrical motor,
we can write its transfer function in terms
of the motor constant, it's inertia, and it's
friction.
A motor control system needs a means of measuring
the angle of the motor shaft. And the most
common way this is done is with an incremental
encoder with two light beams shine through
slots in a disk attached to the motor shaft.
We can analyze these signals to determine
the velocity of the motor and the direction
of rotation. And by counting the pulses and
knowing the direction, we can determine the
angle of the motor shaft. We bring a number
of these components together to create a robot
joint controller.
The joint controller itself is typically an
algorithm running in an embedded controller.
The motor drive is typically an H-bridge circuit
comprising four electronic switches. The switches
can be turned on and off very quickly which
allows us to control not only the direction
the current flows through the motor, but the
average voltage that the motor experiences.
The output of the motor is connected through
the robot joint by a mechanical transmission,
a reduction gearbox which amplifies the torque
of the motor.
The position of the motor is measured with
a position sensor. Typically, that's an optical
incremental encoder. That information is fed
back to the joint controller compared with
the desired position. And the error between
those two is used to drive the motor either
forwards or backwards to minimize the error.
We can create a dynamic model of this robot
joint control system.
We have a block which represents the joint
controller, and the negative feedback summing
junction. The output of the motor driver is
current which goes into our model of the actuator.
The output of that block is the position of
the motor. We model the sensor as a gain of
one, which provides the negative feedback
signal to the joint controller.
The maximum acceleration of a robot joint
is a function of the maximum torque that the
motor can generate and that's a function of
the motor torque constant and the maximum
current that can be fed into the motor. And
it's also a function of the inertia that the
motor experiences.
That inertia has got two components: one component
is the motor's own armature inertia and that's
a constant. The other component is the inertia
of the link.
In a real robot, the link inertia is highly
variable. And that's because in a serial link
manipulator, each link has to hold up all
of the subsequent links. As the joint angles
of all of those out board links varies with
time, so will the inertia that this motor experiences.
However, typically there is a gearbox between
the motor and the link and that is the effect
of reducing the inertia of the link by a factor
of "G" squared. Typically, "G" is a big number,
could be ten, could be a hundred; and that
dramatically reduces this variable inertia
due to the link configuration.
Multi-joint robots typically employ what's
called independent joint control so there
is a separate robot joint controller for each
individual joint. Typically these controllers
have a common electronic and software design.
And typically, only a few parameters in the
joint controller need to be changed to accommodate
the different sized motors that are fitted
to different joints of the robot.